[Music]
13 ways to boost your brainpower from
secret agents the way our brain works
has always been one of the most
fascinating subjects out there and even
though there have been lots of useful
and interesting discoveries on this
topic there are also plenty of
misconceptions today we're gonna do bunk
these myths and share a couple of brain
boosting tips used by some of the
sharpest minds out there secret agents
before we start don't forget to
subscribe to our Channel and turn on
notifications so that you'll be the
first to see all our new videos myth
number 13 you won't become a math genius
by drawing you'd think that drawing and
math have nothing to do with each other
but that's not the case drawing
activates both hemispheres of the brain
which allows you to come up with good
solutions way quicker studies have even
shown that kids learn math better and
memorize information faster if they
illustrate the new material or doodle in
their notebooks so whenever you need to
make an important decision
try doodling or drawing for 10 minutes
using your non-dominant hand you can
also do it every day
and after a month you'll notice the
brain enhancing effects myth number 12
swings are for kids some more great news
for the kid and us all playing on the
swings can seriously improve your brain
work when we're children swinging on the
playground promotes the development of
certain parts of the brain responsible
for speech and motor skills
swinging bouncing rocking and spinning
also strengthen the vestibular apparatus
in the year at mph thus improving
spatial orientation skills this fact has
actually been proven by astronauts so
don't hesitate to play on the swings for
15 to 20 minutes two to three times a
week and never turn down a ride on the
merry-go-round
it'll spare you from motion sickness as
well as the staggering symptoms from
excessive drinking not bad right
[Music]
myth number 11 psychic abilities don't
exist something like a sixth sense can
often be found among people who have had
to better develop certain sensory organs
blind people for instance can understand
the space around them by concentrating
on their sense of hearing smell or touch
to function properly their brain
effectively creates a sort of mental map
based on the received information to
activate these parts of your brain
practice doing certain things using
earplugs several times a week other
great options are walking backwards or
playing what's in the box after some
time you'll see your sensory skills
slowly but steadily sharpening myth
number 10 chess is the best sport for
the brain don't get me wrong your brain
benefits a lot from chess but it works
even better from complex physical
training during a full-body workout your
system pumps out hormones that are
responsible for memory the assimilation
of new skills and the preservation of
neurons participants in a study were
asked to solve certain tasks when given
a break group a stretched while group B
rested the results showed that group B
which rested did worse on the tasks than
Group A so the lesson here is simple
don't rely purely on chess and
crosswords to sharpen your mind swimming
dancing
or yoga will do a way better job at
developing not only your body but your
brain as well myth number nine milk is
good for your brain
believe it or not milk has concealed
genic or blood sugar raising and
inflammatory properties that aren't
exactly good for your system or brain
work
that's why consuming other dairy
products is much better for both your
brain and your body adding more fatty
fish caviar nuts
fruits and vegetables to your plate is
also advisable you might even consider
following the low-carb ketogenic diet
just don't forget to consult your doctor
before hand myth number eight you can't
teach an old dog new tricks
not only an overused cliché but a
misconception at that the truth is that
almost any skill imaginable can be
learned and developed as an adult for
example some surgeons have started
taking violin lessons after age 30 in
order to develop their fine motor skills
special agents in their turn play video
games to improve their reaction speed
problem solving skills and proper
behavior on a mission all this means one
thing don't be afraid to do something
you've dreamed of since childhood new
skills open neural pathways and prevent
the brain from aging and don't worry
about age limits either because there
are none for instance in the 2018 Winter
Olympics the alpine skier representing
Mexico was 40 years old and he managed
to master this sport in just one year so
anything's possible as long as you're
willing to work hard for it myth number
seven positive thinking is for the young
and naive optimists cope with failure
easier and reach goals faster period
pessimism and constant worrying however
increase the risk of heart attack by up
to 29% and the risk of cancer by up to
41%
that's why many psychologists recommend
developing a so-called positive
Distortion
it's not that hard to do it just takes
time like anything else try to look on
the bright side of any
situation you're in and your life will
become way more fun and exciting myth
number six
some people are mathematically inclined
others are not another popular
misconception about math that's made a
lot of people give up after repeated
failure the truth is basic understanding
of math is instinctual and an important
survival skill no joke
for example symmetry indicates a ripe
fruit a sense of numbers helps determine
how many people there are in an enemy
tribe and the list goes on the ability
to do math develops differently among
different people but it still can be
improved even in adulthood it has a
positive impact on your memory and is
good for creativity as well start with
simple things play Monopoly and Scrabble
check out simple math problems and
tackle games and calculate your expenses
in your head when you shop then
gradually make the tasks harder and
after some time you'll see how much
easier any mathematical solution comes
to you
myth number five
drinking coffee every day is good for
memory caffeine does boost brain
function and can postpone age-related
memory disorders but you don't have to
drink it on a regular basis if you do it
can seriously affect your sleep
so keep the coffee consumption in check
and try adding another brain boosting
habit to your lifestyle reading if you
read at least one to two books of
different genres per week or reread old
ones to refresh the data your brain will
get a much-needed workout processing all
that information sitting down with a
book and a cup of coffee is an even
better brain and mood enhancing combo
myth number four virtual maps and
navigators develop spatial orientation
although super convenient this
technology actually has the opposite
effect on your brain people who use GPS
navigators for a long time usually end
up forgetting where main streets are
located that's why London cab drivers
have to memorize the location of 25,000
streets by heart to get a license to
work knowing how to find major streets
and being able to use maps boosts the
part of the brain responsible for
spatial orientation distressing and
change of behavior strategies try to
ditch the navigators in favor of paper
maps and pay attention to guiding
landmarks like the position of the Sun
with time you'll be able to find a
certain location even in another city
pretty handy skill to have isn't it
myth three electrical stimulation burns
up the brain electrical brain stimuli
are mostly used by scientists special
agents athletes gamers and people
recovering from a traumatic brain injury
or stroke this therapy improves
concentration boosts logical thinking
improves reaction rate increases verbal
memory and evokes imagination in fact
40% of the test subjects in a study were
able to solve a difficult logical
thinking task that they'd failed before
receiving a course of electrical
stimulation if you're interested you can
even start this therapy yourself but
only after consulting with a doctor to
prevent yourself from any harm don't
skip this step
visiting a specialist first is a must
myth number two pleasure center
stimulation improves brain function the
hormone dopamine raises the feeling of
pleasure when you eat sweet foods drink
alcohol or fall in love but it boosts
brain function only temporarily and then
reduces its productivity demanding a new
dose with time the hormone serotonin
however boosts brain function for a
longer period of time than dopamine it's
produced when you feel personal
fulfilment laugh or share a favorite
hobby with someone close to you so the
best way to joyously improve your brain
work is to simply spend more time with
friends travel more meet new people and
share positive emotions with your loved
ones all this will make your mind
stronger and your life happier myth
number one the brain never gets tired
it's true that the brain itself can't
get tired from doing intellectual work
but your psychological and physical
state can influence your concentration
and activity recent research has shown
that the brain works better when you can
hear the sound of crashing waves feel
the salty breeze and warm sand on your
skin and see all those beautiful shades
of blue that's why we regain our
strength much faster near the ocean the
answer here is either salt therapy a
walk in the forest or a vacation close
to natural bodies of water and don't
forget about going to the beach so which
one of these revelations did you find
the most surprising tell us in the
comments below don't forget to click
Subscribe to stay on the bright side of
life
you